New article "Prevent security tools from blocking WV2-hosted apps" (#3729)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/measures.md

Universal Windows Platform (UWP)<!-- todo: use above? -->

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Solutions

Keep default `ALL APPLICATION PACKAGES` permissions on WebView2 Runtime directories; a Low integrity level process (LowIL) must **read/execute**.

See:
* [Enterprise management of WebView2 Runtimes](./enterprise.md)

This includes the Evergreen WebView2 Runtime path under `C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft\EdgeWebView\Application\<version>\`, which must retain `ALL APPLICATION PACKAGES` Read/Execute permissions.

The System32-based WebView2 Runtime is owned and serviced by Windows.

The System32-based WebView2 Runtime must not be modified, replaced, quarantined, or cleaned by Antivirus (AV), Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR), or Data Loss Prevention (DLP) tools.

The System32-based WebView2 Runtime's default Access Control Lists (ACLs) must be preserved exactly as shipped.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Don't apply Edge browser–only group policies

Do not apply Edge browser–only group policies just because of assuming that those policies affect WebView2.

> Most such policies don't affect WebView2, and unsupported policies can break WebView2 features.

Reviewer: This is hard to parse. What about:

```suggestion
Most group policies which apply to Microsoft Edge don't affect WebView2, and unsupported policies can break WebView2 features.

Don't use Microsoft Edge–only group policies to affect WebView2.
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Slow startup

Issues:

* Slow startup.

* A transient white screen, when perform a navigation.

* Aggressive real-time scanning.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Solutions

Configure **scoped exclusions** for WebView2 Runtime binaries and user data folder (UDF); avoid broad exclusions.

See:
* [Enterprise management of WebView2 Runtimes](./enterprise.md)
* [Manage user data folders](./user-data-folder.md)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Tools in which to check for the symptoms and causes

Audience: IT administrators.

IT administrators can use standard Windows tools to determine whether the listed symptoms are caused by:
* WebView2 being blocked.
* WebView2 failing to initialize.
* WebView2 crashing.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Task Manager

Under the host application, verify that the WebView2 Runtime (`msedgewebview2.exe`) and its child processes appear.

The child processes include:

* Renderer.
* Graphics Processing Unit (GPU).
* Network.
* Crashpad.

If no WebView2 child processes appear, the WebView2 Runtime or child process spawning is blocked: 

> * Windows Defender Application Control (WDAC) injection.<!-- todo: what's this list? need lead-in/transition -->

Reviewer 2: Remove "injection". cc: @Lakshmisha-KS

* Renderer
* Graphics Processing Unit (GPU)
* Network
* Crashpad

See:
* [Handling process-related events in WebView2](./process-related-events.md)
* [Crash Dumps](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Feedback/blob/main/diagnostics/crash.md) - WebView2Feedback repo.

Avoid dynamic-link library (DLL) injection.

Use Microsoft Edge connectors.

See:
* [Microsoft Edge for Business Security Connectors](/deployedge/microsoft-edge-connectors-overview) - in Microsoft Edge Enterprise documentation.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Avoid broad, global exclusions

Tune scanning with scoped exclusions for the WebView2 Runtime directory and user data folder (UDF).

Avoid broad, global exclusions.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Trust internal proxy Certificate Authorities (CAs), and allow essential sign-in or Content Delivery Network (CDN) endpoints

Align Transport Layer Security (TLS) policies with Chromium:

* Trust internal proxy Certificate Authorities (CAs).

* Allow essential sign-in endpoints.

* Allow essential Content Delivery Network (CDN) endpoints.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

> #### Preserve Access Control Lists (ACLs) and Low IL (LowIL)

Reviewer 3: #### Preserve Access Control Lists (ACLs) and Low Integrity Level (LowIL)

Preserve Access Control Lists (ACLs) and IL<!-- todo: LowIL? --> on WebView2 Runtime folders.<!-- Low integrity level process (LowIL) -->

A Low integrity level process (LowIL) must Read/Execute enterprise management<!-- todo: clarify -->.

See:
* [Enterprise management of WebView2 Runtimes](./enterprise.md)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

> #### Align Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Proxy<!-- todo: clarify -->

Reviewer 3: // ...existing code...
Preserve the default Access Control Lists (ACLs) and Low Integrity Level (LowIL) settings on WebView2 Runtime folders.

A Low Integrity Level process (LowIL) must be able to **Read** and **Execute** the WebView2 Runtime binaries. Don't modify the default ACLs that the operating system sets on the Runtime folders, because WebView2's sandboxed renderer processes run at Low Integrity Level and require these permissions to function correctly.
// ...existing code...

Audience: Security software vendors.

Security software vendors should follow these practices for:

* Antivirus (AV).
* Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR).
* Data Loss Prevention (DLP).

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Trust the WebView2 Runtime by signature

Recognize and trust the WebView2 Runtime (`msedgewebview2.exe`) by signature; allow child processes.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Use Edge security connectors instead of dynamic-link library (DLL) injection

Avoid dynamic-link library (DLL) injection; prefer Edge security connectors for Data Loss Prevention (DLP), reporting, or device trust.

See:
* [Microsoft Edge for Business Security Connectors](/deployedge/microsoft-edge-connectors-overview) - in Microsoft Edge Enterprise documentation.

Dynamic-link library (DLL) injection into renderer or Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) processes breaks Chromium's sandboxing model, and commonly causes renderer crashes.

Security software vendors should use supported Edge security connectors instead of low-level hooks.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Runtime folder access and child process creation

> Keep WebView2<!-- todo: review added word --> Runtime folder access and child process creation unrestricted; permit Crashpad.

Author: added "WebView2" before Runtime, ok?

https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/measures?branch=pr-en-us-3729#runtime-folder-access-and-child-process-creation

Reviewer 3: Ok

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Don't block Runtime updates

Do not block Evergreen WebView2 Runtime updates.

See:
* [Enterprise management of WebView2 Runtimes](./enterprise.md)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Troubleshooting

Audience: IT administrators.

The following symptoms are important, for IT administrators.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Blank or white embedded window

If there is a blank or white embedded window, make sure WebView2 processes are present in Task Manager process model.

See:
* [Process model for WebView2 apps](./process-model.md)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Initialization error

There might be an initialization error, such as `E_FAIL`.  In this case, app content never loads enterprise management.<!-- todo: clarify, standardize wording -->

See:
* [Enterprise management of WebView2 Runtimes](./enterprise.md)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Sign-in loops; state not persisted

In the case of a sign-in loop, state is not persisted when user data folder (UDF) writes are blocked.

> * Controlled Folder Access (CFA).<!-- todo: lead-in for list -->

Reviewer 3: We can remove the parentheses and text within them. Not relevant

* Data Loss Prevention (DLP).

See:
* [Manage user data folders](./user-data-folder.md)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Transport Layer Security (TLS) errors

Transport Layer Security (TLS) errors (such as `ERR_CERT_*`)

> Along with login redirect failures under interception.<!-- todo: clarify "under" -->

Reviewer: This section only describes an issue, no solution.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Crashes or freezing

Crash or freeze tied to dynamic-link library (DLL) injection or blocked renderer, Graphics Processing Unit (GPU), or Crashpad.

See:
* [Handling process-related events in WebView2](./process-related-events.md)
* [Crash Dumps](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Feedback/blob/main/diagnostics/crash.md) - WebView2Feedback repo.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Slow startup

Issue: Slow startup due to deep real-time scanning of the WebView2 Runtime and the user data folder (UDF).

See:
* [Enterprise management of WebView2 Runtimes](./enterprise.md)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Runtime initialization is blocked

Issue: Runtime initialization is blocked, for any of the following tools:

* Windows Defender Application Control (WDAC).

* AppLocker deny or hardened<!-- todo: clarify "deny or hardened --> Access Control Lists (ACLs).

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Symptoms

> * An immediate init<!-- todo: initialization? --> error.

Reviewer 2: Yes, we can.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Aggressive real-time scanning

Issues:

* Slow startup.

* A transient white screen, when perform a navigation.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Solutions

Configure **scoped exclusions** for WebView2 Runtime binaries and user data folder (UDF); avoid broad exclusions.

See:
* [Enterprise management of WebView2 Runtimes](./enterprise.md)
* [Manage user data folders](./user-data-folder.md)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Tools in which to check for the symptoms and causes

Audience: IT administrators.

IT administrators can use standard Windows tools to determine whether the listed symptoms are caused by:
* WebView2 being blocked.
* WebView2 failing to initialize.
* WebView2 crashing.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Task Manager

Under the host application, verify that the WebView2 Runtime (`msedgewebview2.exe`) and its child processes appear.

The child processes include:

* Renderer.
* Graphics Processing Unit (GPU).
* Network.
* Crashpad.

If no WebView2 child processes appear, the WebView2 Runtime or child process spawning is blocked: 

> * Windows Defender Application Control (WDAC) injection.<!-- todo: what's this list? need lead-in/transition -->

Reviewer 2: What it means: 
The runtime or child process is blocked **due to one of the following being enabled on the machine**:
WDAC
EDR
DLL injection

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Security logs

* Controlled Folder Access (CFA) blocks.

* Data Loss Prevention (DLP) policy blocks.

* AppLocker or Application Control denials.  These typically map to symptoms like sign-in loops, blank screens, or settings not persisting.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Diagnostics, crash reports, and process events

Crash reports are saved under the app's user data folder (UDF) at `EBWebView\Crashpad\reports\`.

Use crash diagnostics together with process events to triage repeated failures.

See:
* [Handling process-related events in WebView2](./process-related-events.md)
* [Crash Dumps](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Feedback/blob/main/diagnostics/crash.md) - WebView2Feedback repo.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Reliability Monitor

Identify repeated crashes of renderer, Graphics Processing Unit (GPU), or Crashpad processes.

These process crashes are correlated with:

* Freezing problems.

* Blank screen problems.

* WebView2 Runtime instability.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Applicability to tools

> <!-- todo: delete section?  was this list (at start of Doc) internal-only? -->

Reviewer 2: No, this is fine. These talk about the applicability to different forms of WebView2. different from different apps which can interact with WebView2.

Typical path of versioned subfolders: `C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft\EdgeWebView\Application\<version>\`

These are versioned subfolders that are updated via Microsoft Edge servicing.

See:
* [Evergreen vs. fixed version of the WebView2 Runtime](./evergreen-vs-fixed-version.md)
* [Distribute your app and the WebView2 Runtime](./distribution.md)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### System-provided WebView2 Runtime binary files

Some Windows components might load WebView2 Runtime binary files directly from `C:\Windows\System32`.  These binary files are owned by the operating system.

These OS-owned WebView2 Runtime binary files:

* Must not be modified, quarantined, or replaced.

* Might not match the Evergreen WebView2 Runtime version that's used by desktop apps.

* Are serviced exclusively through Windows Update, not through WebView2 installers.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### App data

Web content state lives in the app's user data folder.  Web content state includes:

* Cookies.
* Cache.
* Local storage.

See:
* [Manage user data folders](./user-data-folder.md)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Performance impact<!-- todo: create heading -->

Author: Create real heading instead of "Performance impact"

Performance impact of what on what?  Spell out.

draft doc:
<img width="627" height="187" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c1a1bb6d-5c61-4e7e-bf1d-d90b7fdc99a4" />

https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/measures?branch=pr-en-us-3729#performance-impact

> <!-- todo: audience: is this for IT administrators, or security software vendors? -->

Reviewer 2: It is for both. It admins can use this to identify the issues that they are seeing with launching or using WebView2 in their apps, and figure out which security software is causing the issue.
Once they reach out the security software vendor, the vendors can use this content to figure out what they need to do to ensure WV2 is not blocked.

> <!-- todo: audience: is this for IT administrators, or security software vendors? -->

Author: ```
## Resolving performance issues

Audience: IT administrators and security software vendors.  To 
use this section:

1. The IT administrator uses this information to identify an issue 
that the IT administrator is seeing with launching or using 
WebView2 in their app, and figure out which security software is 
causing the issue.

1. The IT administrator contacts the security software vendor.

1. The security software vendor uses this content to figure out 
what they need to do to ensure that WebView2 is not blocked.
```

   * [Evergreen WebView2 Runtime folder](#evergreen-webview2-runtime-folder)
   * [System-provided WebView2 Runtime binary files](#system-provided-webview2-runtime-binary-files)
   * [App data](#app-data)
* [Performance impact](#performance-impact)
* [Why WebView2 appears in enterprise workloads](#why-webview2-appears-in-enterprise-workloads)
* [See also](#see-also)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Overview

Audience: IT administrators and security software vendors.

Enterprise security tools include:

* Antivirus (AV).

* Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR).

* Data Loss Prevention (DLP).

* Transport Layer Security (TLS) inspection.

Enterprise security tools can disrupt WebView2's multi-process architecture by:

* Blocking child processes.

* Tightening folder Access Control Lists (ACLs).

* Injecting dynamic-link libraries (DLLs).

When such disruption occurs, WebView2-hosted experiences might blank-screen, freeze, or fail to initialize.

See:
* [Process model for WebView2 apps](./process-model.md)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Platform boundary disclaimer

WebView2 doesn't implement app-specific logic.

> WebView2 doesn't bypass enterprise security policies.

Reviewer: It's not entirely clear to me why this is needed. Why do we need to say that?
Can we add a bit more content to clarify please?

Reviewer 2: Thanks Mike, thats the right context.
Essentially the intent is to share that WebView2 will honor all Enterprise security policies, so it there are tools or policies which do not allow certain WebView2 dlls to load there is nothing WebView2 can do there, and Enterprises need to ensure they update their policies.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Best practices for IT administrators

Audience: IT administrators.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Allowlist the WebView2 Runtime and app's host executables

Allowlist the WebView2 Runtime (`msedgewebview2.exe`) and the app's host executables.

See:
* [Prevent antivirus and DLP tools from blocking or crashing Microsoft Teams](/troubleshoot/microsoftteams/teams-administration/include-exclude-teams-from-antivirus-dlp) - in Microsoft Teams troubleshooting.

Prefer publisher rules.

See:
* [Understanding the publisher rule condition in AppLocker](/windows/security/application-security/application-control/app-control-for-business/applocker/understanding-the-publisher-rule-condition-in-applocker) - in Windows Security (Application Control for Windows).

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Preserve default ACLs on Runtime folders and app's UDF

Preserve default Access Control Lists (ACLs) on WebView2 Runtime folders and the app's user data folder.

> The `LowIL/AppContainer`<!-- todo: clarify LowIL, clarify AppContainer --> must Read/Execute the WebView2 Runtime and write to the user data folder (UDF).

Reviewer: "Read/Execute" should probably "read and execute".
I'm guessing this is talking about access permissions. So, perhaps "The ... must have the permission to read and execute the WebView2 Runtime and to write to the user data folder (UDF)."

<!-- Low integrity level process (LowIL) -->

System locations that are managed by the operating system (OS) are handled entirely by Windows, and must not be modified.

See:
* [Manage user data folders](./user-data-folder.md)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Enable writes to the user data folder (UDF)

Enable user data folder (UDF) writes for the user data folder (UDF).

These UDF writes can be from:
* Per-app Controlled Folder Access (CFA) exceptions.
* Per-app Data Loss Prevention (DLP) exceptions.

See:

> * [Manage user data folders](./user-data-folder.md)

Reviewer: Same comment here, "writes" should probably be expanded to "write permission" or "permission to write"

Restore default Access Control Lists (ACLs).

See:
* [Enterprise management of WebView2 Runtimes](./enterprise.md)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Spawning of child processes is blocked or hooked

Issue: The main process starts, but content never loads, and the app freezes.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Solutions

Permit renderer<!-- todo: what renderer? clarify -->, Graphics Processing Unit (GPU), network<!-- todo: what network? clarify -->, and Crashpad.

Avoid dynamic-link library (DLL) injection.

Prefer Edge connectors.

See:
* [Microsoft Edge for Business Security Connectors](/deployedge/microsoft-edge-connectors-overview) - in Microsoft Edge Enterprise documentation.
* [Handling process-related events in WebView2](./process-related-events.md)
* [Crash Dumps](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Feedback/blob/main/diagnostics/crash.md) - WebView2Feedback repo.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

> #### User data folder (UDF) writes are blocked

Reviewer: Same comment about phrasing h4s after the symptom they correspond to.
So, maybe "Sign-in loop".

Also, this seems to be a duplicate of **Sign-in loops; state not persisted**. Remove?

Avoid placing the WebView2 user data folder (UDF) on a network share.

Ensure that Data Loss Prevention (DLP) policies do not misclassify normal browser data (such as cookies, cache, or local storage) as exfiltration attempts.  _Exfiltration_ is the unauthorized transfer of data from a system, network, or cloud environment to an external destination without permission.

See:
* [Manage user data folders](./user-data-folder.md)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Network inspection vs. Transport Layer Security (TLS) inspection is misaligned

Issues:

* `ERR_CERT_*`<!-- todo: elaborate -->

* Sign-in loops (login loops).

* Service workers failing.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Solutions

Install the enterprise proxy's root Certificate Authority (CA) so that WebView2 trusts intercepted HTTPS traffic.

Ensure that authentication endpoints and Content Delivery Network (CDN) endpoints that are used by the WebView2 app are explicitly allowed.

Validate authentication endpoints and Content Delivery Network (CDN) endpoints.

See:
* [Enterprise management of WebView2 Runtimes](./enterprise.md)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

> #### An Access Control List (ACL) mismatch with the Integrity level

Reviewer: Same comment about rephrasing to describe the symptom. Maybe:
"Application only works with higher privilege"
